Update MQTT integration templates (#43332)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/light.mqtt.markdown

      required: true
      type: string
    value_template:

>       description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract device's availability from the `topic`. To determine the devices's availability result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."

Reviewer: We should not change links here, as they will break this way.

  type: string
  default: latest
availability_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract device's availability from the `availability_topic`. To determine the devices's availability result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."

Reviewer: Same here

  required: false
  type: string
brightness_value_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the brightness value from brightness_state_topic."

Reviewer: Do not change the link.

```suggestion
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-value-templates-with-mqtt) to extract the brightness value from the payload received at `brightness_state_topic`."
```

  required: false
  type: template
color_mode_state_topic:
  description: "The MQTT topic subscribed to receive color mode updates. If this is not configured, `color_mode` will be automatically set according to the last received valid color or color temperature. The unit used is mireds, or if `color_temp_kelvin` is set to `true`, in Kelvin."
  required: false
  type: string
color_mode_value_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the color mode value from color_mode_state_topic."

Reviewer: Do not change the links:

```suggestion
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-value-templates-with-mqtt) to extract the color mode value from the payload received at `color_mode_state_topic`."
```

  required: false
  type: string
color_temp_value_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the color temperature value."

Reviewer: Do not change the link

  required: false
  type: string
effect_value_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the effect value."

Reviewer: Do not change the link

  required: false
  type: string
hs_value_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the HS value."

Reviewer: Do not change the link

  required: false
  type: template
icon:
  description: "[Icon](/docs/configuration/customizing-devices/#icon) for the entity."
  required: false
  type: icon
json_attributes_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the JSON dictionary from messages received on the `json_attributes_topic`. Usage example can be found in [MQTT sensor](/integrations/sensor.mqtt/#json-attributes-template-configuration) documentation."

Reviewer: Do not change the link

  required: false
  type: template
rgb_command_topic:

>   description: "The MQTT topic to publish commands to change the light's RGB state. Required only when using rgb_state_topic."

Reviewer: I do not think this addition is needed. Use a backtick if you are refering to other options.

  required: false
  type: string
rgb_state_topic:
  description: "The MQTT topic subscribed to receive RGB state updates. The expected payload is the RGB values separated by commas, for example, `255,0,127`."
  required: false
  type: string
rgb_value_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the RGB value from rgb_state_topic."

Reviewer: Do not change the link

```suggestion
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-value-templates-with-mqtt) to extract the RGB value from the payload received at `rgb_state_topic`."
```

  required: false
  type: string
rgbw_value_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the RGBW value."

Reviewer: Do not change the links

  required: false
  type: string
rgbww_value_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the RGBWW value."

Reviewer: Do not change the link

  required: false
  type: string
state_value_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the state value from state_topic. The template should return the values defined by `payload_on` (defaults to \"ON\") and `payload_off` (defaults to \"OFF\") settings, or \"None\"."

Reviewer: Do not change the link

  required: false
  type: string
xy_value_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the XY value."

Reviewer: Do not change the link

Make sure that your topics match exactly. `some-topic/` and `some-topic` are different topics.
{% endimportant %}

{% important %}
The MQTT Light integration handles the payload values as strings. For example, [255, 211, 89] is shown in MQTT Explorer as a list but the MQTT Light integration handles it as a string. The same is true for null, which is handled as a literal string and not the null object (i.e. none). Knowing this is vital for creating valid templates to process the values.
{% endimportant %}

> 

Reviewer: I'm not sure why this is added here, as we have an examples section. AFAIN there are some examples listed.

      brightness_command_topic: "office/rgb1/brightness/set"
      rgb_state_topic: "office/rgb1/rgb/status"
      rgb_command_topic: "office/rgb1/rgb/set"
      state_value_template: "{{ value | upper }}"
      brightness_value_template: "{{ 0 if value == 'null' else value }}"

>       rgb_value_template: "{{ value[1:-1] if value != 'null' else '0,0,0' }}"

Reviewer: These are wrong examples, as `value` is only to be used for command templates

      required: true
      type: string
    value_template:

>       description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract device's availability from the `topic`. To determine the devices's availability result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."

Reviewer: Do not change the link

  type: string
  default: latest
availability_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract device's availability from the `availability_topic`. To determine the devices's availability result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."

Reviewer: Do not change the link

  required: false
  type: icon
json_attributes_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the JSON dictionary from messages received on the `json_attributes_topic`. Usage example can be found in [MQTT sensor](/integrations/sensor.mqtt/#json-attributes-template-configuration) documentation."

Reviewer: Do not change the link

      required: true
      type: string
    value_template:

>       description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract device's availability from the `topic`. To determine the devices's availability result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."

Reviewer: Do not change the link

  type: string
  default: latest
availability_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract device's availability from the `availability_topic`. To determine the devices's availability result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."

Reviewer: Do not change the link
